Accurate Shot
Max: Ballistic Skill Bonus
You are an exceptional shot and know where to shoot an enemy
in order to in?ict maximum damage. You deal your Accurate
Shot level in extra Damage with all ranged weapons.
Acute Sense (Sense)
Max: Initiative Bonus
Test: Perception (Sense)
One of your primary fve senses is highly developed, allowing you
to spot what others miss. You may take Perception Tests to detect
normally imperceptible details with the associated sense, as
dictated by the GM. Tis could include: seeing an eagle beyond
everyone else’s eyeshot, smelling an almost odourless poison,
hearing the breath of an unmoving mouse within a wall, feeling a
worn away letter in a carving, or tasting that two beers from the
same brewer have been drawn from two di?erent barrels.
Aethyric Attunement
Max: Initiative Bonus
Test: Channelling (Any)
Your experience, talent or training lets you more safely manipulate
the Winds of Magic. You do not su?er a Miscast if you roll a
double on a successful Channel Test.
Alley Cat
Max: Initiative Bonus
Test: Stealth (Urban)
You are at home in shadowy backstreets. When using Stealth
(Urban), you may reverse the dice of any failed Test if this will
score a Success.
Ambidextrous
Max: 2
You can use your o?-hand far better than most folk, either by
training or innate talent. You only su?er a penalty of –10 to Tests
relying solely on your secondary hand, not –20. If you have this
Talent twice, you su?er no penalty at all.
IV
132Animal Afnity
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Charm Animal
Wild animals feel comfortable in your presence, and often follow
your lead. All creatures with the Bestial Trait not trained to be
belligerent will automatically be calm in your presence unless they
have a reason not to be, such as pain, an attack, being naturally
hyper-aggressive, or having nearby young.
Arcane Magic (Lore)
Max: 1
You either study one of the 8 Arcane Lores of Magic — Beasts,
Death, Fire, Heavens, Metal, Shadow, Light, or Life — or
practice a lesser known Lore, such as Hedgecraft or Necromancy.
You may now memorise spells from your chosen Lore for the
following cost in XP.
Number of Spells Currently Known XP Cost for a new spell
Up to Intelligence Bonus × 1 100 XP
Up to Intelligence Bonus × 2 200 XP
Up to Intelligence Bonus × 3 300 XP
Up to Intelligence Bonus × 4 400 XP
...and so on.
So, if your Intelligence Bonus is 4, it will cost you 100 XP for
the frst spell, and the next 4, then 200 XP for the next 4, and
so on. Full rules for learning new spells are provided in Chapter
8: Magic. Under normal circumstances, you may not learn more
than one Arcane Magic (Lore) Talent. Further, you may not
learn the Bless or Invoke Talents when you have the Arcane
Magic Talent. You can unlearn this Talent for 100 XP, but will
immediately lose all of your spells if you do so.
Argumentative
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm Tests when arguing and debating
You are used to arguing your points and winning. If you roll
a successful Charm Test to debate with an opponent, you can
choose to either use your rolled SL, or the number rolled on your
units die. So, a successful roll of 24 could be used for +4 SL.
Artistic
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Art (Any)
You have a natural talent for art, able to produce precise sketches
with nothing but time and appropriate media. Tis ability has
several in-game uses, ranging from creating Wanted Posters to
sketching accurate journals, and has spot benefts as determined
by the GM. Further to this, add Art (Any) to any Career you
enter; if it is already in Career, you may instead purchase the Skill
for 5 XP fewer per Advance.
Attractive
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm Tests to in?uence those attracted to you
Whether it’s your piercing eyes, your strong frame, or maybe the
way you ?ash your perfect teeth, you know how to make the best
use of what the gods gave you. When you successfully use Charm
to in?uence those attracted to you, you can choose to either use
your rolled SL, or the number rolled on your units die. So, a
successful roll of 38 could be used for +8 SL.
Battle Rage
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Melee Tests when Frenzied
You are better able to control your Frenzy in combat. You can end
your Frenzy with a successful Cool Test at the end of the round.
Beat Blade
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus
Tests: Melee for a Beat Blade
You are trained to make sharp controlled blows to your
opponent’s weapon, creating an opening for an attack or simply
impeding an incoming attack. For your Action, you can choose
to Beat Blade before rolling. Perform a Melee Test; if successful,
your opponent loses –1 Advantage, and loses a further –1 per
SL you score. Tis Test is not Opposed. Tis Talent is of no use
if your opponent has no weapon, or has a larger Size than you
(see page 341).
Beneath Notice
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Stealth when in plain sight
Te high and mighty pay no attention to your presence, knowing
you are well beneath their notice. Assuming you are properly
attired and not in an incongruous position, those of a higher
Status Tier will normally ignore you unless your presence
becomes inappropriate, which can make it very easy to listen into
conversations you perhaps shouldn’t. Further, characters with a
higher Status Tier than you gain no Advantage for striking or
wounding you in combat, as there is nothing to be gained for
defeating such a lowly cur.
Berserk Charge
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Melee on a Round when you Charge
You hurl yourself at your enemies with reckless abandon, using
the force of your charge to add weight to your strikes. When you
Charge, you gain +1 Damage to all Melee attacks per level in this
Talent.
Blather
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm to Blather
Called ‘opening your mouth and letting your belly rumble’ in
Nordland, or simply ‘bullshitting’ in Ostland, blathering involves
talking rapidly and incessantly, or talking volubly and at-length,
about inconsequential or nonsense matters, and is used to verbally
confuse and confound a target. You use your Charm Skill to
Blather. Attempt an Opposed Charm/Intelligence Test. Success
gives your opponent a Stunned Condition. Further, for each
level you have in Blather, your opponent gains another Stunned
sKIlls and talents IV
133Warhammer Fantasy roleplay
Condition. Targets Stunned by Blather may do nothing other
than stare at you dumbfounded as they try to catch-up with or
understand what you are saying. Once the last Stunned Condition
comes to an end, the target fnally gets a word in, and may not
be best pleased with you — after all, you have been talking about
nothing or nonsense for some time. Should you stop talking,
your opponent immediately loses all Stunned Conditions caused
by your Blather. Generally, you can only attempt to Blather at a
character once per scene, or perhaps longer as determined by the
GM, as the target soon wises up to your antics.
Bless (Divine Lore)
Max: 1
You are watched over by one of the Gods and can empower simple
prayers. You can now deploy the Blessings of your deity as listed
in Chapter 7: Religion and Belief. Under normal circumstances,
you may only ever know one Divine Lore for the Bless Talent..
Bookish
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Test: Research
You are as at home in a library as a seaman at sea or a farmer
a-farming. When using Research, you may reverse the dice of any
failed Test if this will score a success.
Break and Enter
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Melee when forcing or breaking inanimate objects
You are an expert at quickly breaking down doors and forcing
entry. You may add +1 Damage for each level in this Talent when
determining damage against inanimate objects such as windows,
chests, doors, and similar.
Briber
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Bribery
You are an exceedingly skilled briber. Te GM should reduce
the base cost of any required bribe by 10% per level you have in
Briber, to a minimum of 10% of the original amount.
Cardsharp
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Gamble and Sleight of Hand when playing card games
You are used to playing, and winning, at cards, although your
methods may involve a little cheating. When you successfully use
Gamble or Sleight of Hand when playing cards, you can choose
to either use your rolled SL, or the number rolled on your units
die. So, a successful roll of 28 could be used for +8 SL. If you play
a real card game to represent what is happening in-game, you
may receive an extra number of cards per deal equal to your level
in Cardsharp, then discard down to the appropriate hand-size
before each round of play.
Careful Strike
Max: Initiative Bonus
You are skilled at hitting your enemy exactly where you want to,
either at range or in melee. You may modify your Hit Location result
by up to +/–10 per time you have this Talent. So, if you had this
Talent twice and hit location 34, the Right Arm, you could modify
this down to 14, the Left Arm, or up to 54, the Body (see page
159).
Carouser
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: Charm at Parties, Gossip at Parties, Consume Alcohol
You are a seasoned drinker and know how to party hard. You may
reverse the dice of any failed Consume Alcohol Test if this will
score a Success.
Catfall
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Athletics when falling
You are nimble and balanced like a cat, and are able to fall much
greater distances unharmed than others might. Whenever you
fall, you attempt an Athletics Test. If successful, reduce the
distance fallen by 1 yard, +1 extra yard per +1 SL scored, for the
purposes of calculating Damage.
Cat-tongued
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm when lying
Like Ranald the Trickster God, you blend truth and lies as if
there were no di?erence. When using Charm to lie, listeners do
not get to oppose your Charm with their Intuition to detect if
there is something fshy in what you say.
Chaos Magic (Lore)
Max: Number of Spells available in chosen Chaos Magic Lore
By accident or design you have lost a portion of your soul to one
of the Dark Gods, and can now practice the foul magics of Chaos.
Your ruinous patron immediately grants you access to a single spell
from the chosen Lore (most commonly the Nurgle, Slaanesh, or
Tzeentch Lores) and you gain a Corruption point as the spell
infltrates your mind, never to be forgotten.
Each time you take this Talent, which always costs 100 XP per time
instead of the normal cost, you learn another spell from your chosen
Lore and gain a Corruption point. For more about the available
spells, see Chapter 8: Magic. Under normal circumstances, you
may only ever know one Lore of Chaos Magic.
Combat Aware
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Perception during melee
You are used to scanning the battlefeld to make snap decisions
informed by the shifting tides of war. You may take a Challenging
(+0) Perception Test to ignore Surprise, which is modifed by
circumstance as normal.
Combat Master
Max: Agility Bonus
Your accumulated years of combat experience allow you to keep
lesser fghters at bay. For each level in this Talent, you count as
one more person for the purposes of determining if one side outIV
134numbers the other. Tis Talent only comes into play when you are
out-numbered. See page 162 for the rules for out-numbering.
Combat Re?exes
Max: Initiative Bonus
You react like a ?ash of lightning. Add 10 to your Initiative for
each level in this Talent when determining Combat Initiative.
Commanding Presence
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Leadership
Your presence flls others with hushed awe and admiration. Such
is your aura of authority, those with a lower Status may not resist
your Leadership tests with their Willpower. Of course, enemies
are still no more likely to respect or obey you, but the common
folk rarely stand against you.
Concoct
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Lore (Apothecary)
You are skilled at making potions, philtres, and draughts on
the go. You may take one free Crafting Endeavour to use Lore
(Apothecary) without need of a Workshop. Other Crafting
Endeavours use the normal rules.
Contortionist
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Perform and Agility Tests when contorting helps
You can bend and manipulate your body in a myriad of seemingly
unnatural ways. Tis allows you to squeeze through unlikely gaps
and bend your body in crazy ways, giving benefts determined by
the GM, possibly with a successful Agility test.
Coolheaded
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Willpower
Characteristic this does not count towards your Advances.
Crack the Whip
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Drive or Ride Tests when Fleeing or Running
You know how to get the most out of your animals. When an
animal you control is Fleeing or Running, it gains +1 Movement
if you are using a whip.
Craftsman (Trade)
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Trade (any one)
You have true creative talent. Add the associated Trade Skill to any
Career you enter. If the Trade Skill is already in your Career, you
may instead purchase the Skill for 5 XP fewer per Advance.
Criminal
Max: None
You are an active criminal making money from illegal sources,
and you’re not always quiet about it. For the purposes of securing
money, either when Earning during play or performing an
Income Endeavour, refer to the following table:
Career
Level
Bonus Money per time the
Talent is taken
1 +2d10 brass pennies
2 +1d10 silver shillings
3 +2d10 silver shillings
4 +1 gold crown
Because of your obvious criminal nature, others consider you
lower Status than them unless they also have the Criminal Talent,
where Status is compared as normal — perhaps you have gang
tattoos, look shifty, or are just rough around the edges, it’s your
choice. Because of this, local law enforcers are always suspicious
of you and suspect your motivations, which only gets worse the
more times you have this Talent, with the exact implications
determined by the GM. Lawbreakers without the Criminal
Talent earn signifcantly less coin but are not obviously the sort to
be breaking the law, so maintain their Status. With GM consent,
you may spend XP to remove levels of the Criminal Talent for the
same XP it cost to buy.
Deadeye Shot
Max: 1
You always hit an opponent right between the eyes… or wherever
else you intended to hit. Instead of reversing the dice to determine
which Hit Location is struck with your ranged weapons, you may
pick a location.
Dealmaker
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Haggle
You are a skilled businessman who knows how to close a deal.
When using the Haggle skill, you reduce or increase the price of
the products by an extra 10%.
Note: Te GM may put a lower limit on prices here to show a
seller refusing to sell below cost.
Detect Artefact
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Intuition tests to detect magical artefacts
You are able to sense when magic lies within an artefact. You
may attempt an Intuition Test for any magical artefact touched.
If successful, you sense the item is magical; further, each SL also
provides a specifc special rule the item uses, if it has any. Normally,
you may only attempt this Test once per artefact touched.
Diceman
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Gamble and Sleight of Hand when playing dice games
You are a dicing master, and all claims you cheat are clearly
sKIlls and talents IV
135Warhammer Fantasy roleplay
wrong. When you successfully use Gamble or Sleight of Hand
when playing with dice, you can choose to either use your rolled
SL, or the number rolled on your units die. So, a successful roll of
06 could be used for +6 SL. If you play any real-life dice games to
represent in-game dice games, always roll extra dice equal to your
Diceman level and choose the best results.
Dirty Fighting
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus
Tests: Melee (Brawling)
You have been taught all the dirty tricks of unarmed combat. You
may choose to cause an extra +1 Damage for each level in Dirty
Fighting with any successful Melee (Brawling) hit.
Note: using this Talent will be seen as cheating in any formal
bout.
Disarm
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Melee Tests concerning this Talent
You are able to disarm an opponent with a careful ?ick of the
wrist or a well-aimed blow to the hand. For your Action, you
may attempt an Opposed Melee/Melee test. If you win, your
opponent loses a held weapon, which ?ies 1d10 feet in a random
direction (with further e?ects as determined by the GM). If you
win by 2 SL, you can determine how far the weapon is ?ung
instead of rolling randomly; if you win by 4 SL, you can also
choose the direction the weapon goes in; if you win by 6 SL or
more, you can take your opponent’s weapon if you have a free
hand, plucking it from the air with a ?ourish. Tis Talent is of no
use if your opponent has no weapon, or is a larger Size than you
(see page 341).
WE’RE DOOMED!
the following are examples of doomings to inspire your own
creations for the doomed talent:
• From darkness cometh the raven.
• Beasts of the feld hath eyes for thee.
• plague and dark disease shall bring thee to thy knees.
• absence makes thy heart grow weaker.
• the sword shalt bring no justice, only thine end.
• The bun! The pastry! The pie! lo, they are Morr’s
dishes!
• the drummer beats out thine end.
• Thine end is not thine end!
• though shalt sup deep of the cup of corruption.
• high places bring a low end.
Distract
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Athletics to Distract
You are trained in simple movements to distract or startle your
opponent, drawing eyes from your true intent. You may use your
Move to perform a Distraction. Tis is resolved by an Opposed
Athletics/Cool Test. If you win, your opponent can gain no
Advantage until the end of the next Round.
Doomed
Max: 1
At the age of 10, a Priest of Morr called a Doomsayer took you
aside to foretell your death in an incense-laden, coming-of-age
ritual called the Dooming. In conjunction with your GM, come up
with a suitable Dooming. Should your character die in a fashion
that matches your Dooming, your next character gains a bonus of
half the total XP your dead character accrued during play.
Drilled
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus
Tests: Melee Tests when beside an ally with Drilled
You have been trained to fght shoulder-to-shoulder with other
soldiers. If an enemy causes you to lose Advantage when standing
beside an active ally with the Drilled Talent, you may keep 1 lost
Advantage for each time you’ve taken the Drilled Talent.
Dual Wielder
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Melee or Ranged when attacking with two weapons
When armed with two weapons, you may attack with both for your
Action. Roll to hit with the weapon held in your primary hand.
If you hit, determine Damage as normal, but remember to keep
your dice roll, as you will use it again. If the frst strike hits, once
it is resolved, the weapon in your secondary hand can then target
an available opponent of your choice using the same dice roll for
the frst strike, but reversed. So, if you rolled 34 to hit with the frst
weapon, you use 43 to hit with the second. Remember to modify
this second roll by your o?-hand penalty (–20 unless you have the
Ambidextrous Talent). Tis second attack is Opposed with a new
defending roll, and damage for this second strike is calculated as
normal. Te only exception to this is if you roll a Critical for your
frst strike. If this happens, use the roll on the Critical Table to also
act as the roll for the second attack. So, if you scored a critical to the
head and rolled 56 on the Critical table for a Major Eye Wound,
your second attack would then strike out with a to-hit value of 56.
If you choose to attack with both weapons, all your defensive rolls
until the start of your next Turn su?er a penalty of –10. You do
not gain an Advantage when you successfully strike or Wound an
opponent when Dual Wielding unless both attacks hit.
Embezzle
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Intelligence (Embezzling)
You are skilled at skimming money from your employers
without being detected. Whenever you secure money when
Earning (during play or performing an Income Endeavour),
IV
136you may attempt an Opposed Intelligence Test with your
employer (assuming you have one). If you win, you skim 2d10
+ SL brass pennies, 1d10 + SL silver shillings, or 1 + SL gold
crowns (depending upon the size of the business in question, as
determined by the GM) without being detected. If your employer
wins by 6+ SL, you gain the money, but your embezzling is
detected; what then happens is left to the GM. Any other result
means you have failed to embezzle any money.
Enclosed Fighter
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Dodge in enclosed environments
You have learned to make the most beneft out of fghting in
enclosed spaces. You ignore penalties to Melee caused by confned
spaces such as tunnels, the frontline, small fghting pits, and
similar, and can use the Dodge Skill, even if it would normally be
disallowed due to lack of space.
Etiquette (Social Group)
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm and Gossip (Social Group)
You can blend in socially with the chosen group so long as you
are dressed and acting appropriately. Example social groups for
this Talent are: Criminals, Cultists, Guilders, Nobles, Scholars,
Servants, and Soldiers. If you do not have the Talent, those with
it will note your discomfort in the unfamiliar environment. Tis
is primarily a matter for roleplaying, but may confer a bonus to
Fellowship Tests at the GM’s discretion.
Fast Hands
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Sleight of Hand, Melee (Brawling) to touch an opponent
You can move your hands with surprising dexterity. Bystanders
get no passive Perception Tests to spot your use of the Sleight of
Hand Skill, instead they only get to Oppose your Sleight of Hand
Tests if they actively suspect and are looking for your movements.
Further, attempts to use Melee (Brawling) to simply touch an
opponent gain a bonus of +10 × your level in Fast Hands.
Fast Shot
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Ranged when making a Fast Shot
If you have a loaded ranged weapon, you can fre it outside the
normal Initiative Order before any other combatant reacts in the
following Round. You roll to hit using all the normal modifers.
Employing Fast Shot requires both your Action and Move for
your upcoming turn, and these will count as having been spent
when your next turn arrives. If two or more characters use Fast
Shot, the character who has taken this Talent most goes frst. If
any characters have taken Fast Shot an equal number of times,
both shots are fred simultaneously, and should both be handled
at the same time.
Fearless (Enemy)
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Cool to oppose your Enemy’s Intimidate, Fear, and Terror
You are either brave enough or crazy enough that fear of certain
enemies has become a distant memory. With a single Average
(+20%) Cool Test, you may ignore any Intimidate, Fear, or Terror
e?ects from the specifed enemy when encountered. Typical
enemies include Beastmen, Greenskins, Outlaws, Vampires,
Watchmen, and Witches.
Feint
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus
Tests: Melee (Fencing) for Feints
You have trained how to make false attacks in close combat to
fool your opponent. You may now make a Feint for your Action
against any opponent using a weapon. Tis is resolved with an
Opposed Melee (Fencing)/Melee Test. If you win, and you
attack the same opponent before the end of the next Round, you
may add the SL of your Feint to your attack roll.
sKIlls and talents IVWarhammer Fantasy roleplay
Field Dressing
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Heal during combat Rounds
You are used to treating wounds quickly. If you fail a Heal Test
when using Bandages, you may reverse the result if this will score
a success; however, if you do so, you may not score more than +1
SL as you focus on speed over accuracy.
Fisherman
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Test involving fshing
You are a very capable fsherman and know all the best ways to
land fsh. Assuming a large enough body of water is available,
you are automatically assumed to be able to fsh enough to feed
yourself and a number of others equal to your level in Fisherman,
assuming you choose to spend at least an hour or so with a line
and bait. You may secure more fsh in addition to this using the
normal rules for foraging (see page 127).
Flagellant
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: Any for resisting the Ruinous Powers
You have dedicated your pain to the service of your God. Each
day, you must spend half a bell (half an hour) praying as you
maintain a number of Wounds su?ered equal to your level in
Flagellent. Until you next sleep, if you have the Frenzy Talent you
may enter Frenzy immediately without testing.
Te Frenzy Talent is added to the Talent list of any career you
are in. Should you fail to ?agellate yourself on any given day, or
allow your castigated ?esh to be healed, you may not spend any
Resilience or Resolve until you ?agellate yourself again.
Flee!
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Athletics when Fleeing
When your life is on the line you are capable of impressive bursts
of speed. Your Movement Attribute counts as 1 higher when
Fleeing (see page 165).
Fleet Footed
Max: 1
You gain +1 to your Movement Attribute.
Frenzy
Max: 1
You can Frenzy as described on page 190.
Frightening
Max: Strength Bonus
Anyone sane thinks twice before approaching you. If you wish,
you have a Fear Rating of 1 (see page 190). Add +1 to this
number per extra time you have this Talent.
Furious Assault
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Melee when making extra attacks
Your blows follow one another in quick succession, raining down
on your opponents with the fury of Ulric. Once per Round, if you
hit an opponent in close combat, you may immediately spend an
Advantage or your Move to make an extra attack (assuming you
have your Move remaining).
Gregarious
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Gossip Tests with travellers
You just like talking to other folk and it seems they like talking
to you. You may reverse any failed Gossip Test if this allows the
Test to succeed.
Gunner
Max: Dexterity Bonus
You can reload blackpowder weapons with practiced ease. Add
SL equal to your level in Gunner to any Extended Test to reload
a Blackpowder weapon.
Hardy
Max: Toughness Bonus
You gain a permanent addition to your Wounds, equal to your
Toughness Bonus. If your Toughness Bonus should increase, then
the number of Wounds Hardy provides also increases.
Hatred (Group)
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Willpower (Resist Group)
You are consumed with hatred for something in the Old World, as
described on page 190. Each time you take this Talent you develop
hatred for a new group. Examples you could take include: Beastmen,
Greenskins, Monsters, Outlaws, Sigmarites, Undead, Witches.
Holy Hatred
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Your prayers drip with the hatred you feel for your blasphemous
enemies. You deal +1 Damage with Miracles for each level in this
Talent.
Holy Visions
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Intuition Tests when on holy ground
You clearly see the great works of the Gods all around you. You
automatically know when you enter Holy Ground, and may take
an Intuition Test to receive visions (often obscure, and seen through
the paradigm of your cult or individual belief-system) regarding
the local area if signifcant events have occurred there in the past.
Hunter’s Eye
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Test to trail or capture game
You are a skilled hunter and know all the best techniques to
fnd game. When travelling through well-stocked lands, you
IV
138are automatically assumed to be able to hunt down enough
game to feed yourself and a number of others equal to your
level in Hunter’s Eye, so long as you have time and the correct
equipment. You may secure more food in addition to this using
the normal rules for foraging (see page 127).
Impassioned Zeal
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm when speaking about your cause
When you talk about your cause, case, or religion, your words fll
with passion and fervent zeal. You may double your Fellowship
for the purposes of determining the number of people in?uenced
by your Public Speaking (see page 142) when talking about your
cause.
Implacable
Max: Toughness Bonus
It takes a lot to fnish you o?. You can ignore the Wound loss
from a Bleeding Condition. Each level in this Talent lets you
ignore the Wound loss from an extra Bleeding Condition.
In-fghter
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Melee when in-fghting, or to enter in-fghting
You are skilled at drawing in close to an opponent. You su?er no
penalties for fghting against an opponent with a longer weapon
than you. Further, if you use the optional rules for In-fghting (see
page 297), gain a bonus of +10 to hit your opponent.
Inspiring
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Leadership during war
Your rousing words and pleas can turn the tide of a battle. Refer
to the following table to see how many people you can now
in?uence with your Leadership Skill (see page 126) when at war.
Talent Taken Number of soldiers in?uenced
1 As normal × 5
2 As normal × 10
3 As normal × 20
4 As normal × 50
5 As normal × 100
6 As normal × 200
7 As normal × 500
8 As normal × 1000
9 All who can hear your inspiring voice
Example: Abbess Birgitte van der Hoogenband’s monastery is
under attack by Greenskins, and things are going badly. So, she
decides to bolster her soldiers’ spirits with a Leadership Test,
granting them +10 to all Psychology Tests. Her Leadership Test
scores 3 SL. Given she has a Fellowship Bonus of 6, and she
can in?uence her Fellowship Bonus + SL of her soldiers using
Leadership, she bolsters 9 soldiers. However, as she has Inspiring 3,
that number is multiplied by 20, meaning 180 of her soldiers take
heart from her screamed encouragement to, ‘HOLD THE LINE!’
Instinctive Diction
Maximum: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Language (Magick) when casting
You instinctively understand the language of Magick, and are
capable of articulating the most complex phrases rapidly without
error. You do not su?er a Miscast if you roll a double on a
successful Language (Magick) Test.
Invoke (Divine Lore)
Max: 1
You are blessed by one of the Gods and can empower one of your
Cult’s Miracles. Further, you may purchase extra miracles for 100
XP per miracle you currently know. So, if you already know 3
miracles, your next miracle costs 300 XP to purchase. Full rules
for learning new miracles are provided in Chapter 7: Religion and
Belief. Under normal circumstances, you may not learn more than
one Invoke (Divine Lore) Talent. Further, you may not learn the
Petty Magic or Arcane Magic Talents when you have the Invoke
Talent. You can unlearn this Talent for 100 XP, but will lose all
of your miracles if you do so, and will also garner the extreme
disfavour of your God, with e?ects determined by your GM.
Iron Jaw
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: Endurance tests to resist Stunned
You are made of sturdy stu? and can weather even the strongest
blows. Whenever you gain one or more Stunned Conditions, you
may make an immediate Challenging (+0) Endurance Test to
not take one of them, with each SL removing an extra Stunned
Condition.
sKIlls and talents IV
139Warhammer Fantasy roleplay
Iron Will
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Cool Tests to oppose Intimidate
You have an indomitable will of iron, and will never willingly
bow down before another. Use of the Intimidate skill does not
cause Fear in you, and will not stop you speaking out against the
intimidating party.
Jump Up
Max: 1
You are hard to keep down. You may perform a Challenging (+0)
Athletics Test to immediately regain your feet whenever you gain
a Prone Condition. Tis Athletics Test is often modifed by the
Strength behind the blow that knocks you down: for every +10
Strength the blow has over your Toughness, you su?er a penalty
of –10 to the Athletics Test, and vice versa.
Kingpin
Max: 1
You have earned an air of respectability despite your nefarious
ways. You may ignore the Status loss of the Criminal Talent.
Lightning Re?exes
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Agility
Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).
Linguistics
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Language (All)
You have a natural afnity for languages. Given a month’s
exposure to any Language, you count the associated Language
Skill as a Basic Skill with a successful Intelligence Test (which
can be attempted once per month). Note: Linguistics only works
for languages used to frequently communicate with others, so
does not work with Language (Magick).
Lip Reading
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Perception Tests concerning this Talent
You can tell what people are saying by simply watching their lips;
you do not need to hear what they are saying. If you have an
unobstructed view of the speaker’s lower face, you can attempt a
Perception Test to understand what they are saying.
Luck
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tey say when you were born, Ranald smiled. Your maximum
Fortune Points now equal your current Fate points plus the
number of times you’ve taken Luck.
Magical Sense
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Intuition Tests to detect Wizards
You are able to sense the Winds of Magic in others. You may
attempt an Average (+20) Intuition Test whenever you encounter
a spellcaster. If you pass, you sense the target is a witch. Further,
if you score an Astounding Success (+6), can also determine the
target’s highest Channelling Specialisation.
Magic Resistance
Max: Toughness Bonus
You are resistant to magic. Te SL of any spell a?ecting you is
reduced by 2 per point you have in this Talent. Te SL of a spell
is only modifed by the highest Magic Resistance Talent within
its target area. Further, you may never learn the Arcane Magic,
Bless, Invoke, Petty Magic, or Witch! Talents.
Magnum Opus
Max: None
You are an undisputed master in your feld, able to create work
of such incredible complexity others can but sit back and marvel
at your genius. Each time you take this Talent you may create a
single, extraordinary work of art with one of your Art or Trade
Skills. Tis work is unrivalled in your feld, a unique piece that
will always impress, giving bonuses as determined by the GM,
most commonly to Fellowship Tests from those who have
witnessed your astounding work. Selling the piece will net you
at least ten times its normal value, and sometimes signifcantly
more than this.
Marksman
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Ballistic Skill
(this does not count towards your Advances).
Master of Disguise
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Acting) when being someone else
You are an expert at taking on the appearance and mannerisms
of others. With nothing but posture changes, face twisting,
and careful use of appropriate clothing, you no longer look like
yourself without having to use a Disguise Kit.
Master Orator
Max: Fellowship Bonus
You are skilled at fring up crowds. You gain a gain a SL bonus
equal to your levels of Master Orator to any Charm Test when
Public Speaking before a crowd.
Master Tradesman (Trade)
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Any appropriate Extended Trade Tests
You are exceptionally skilled at your specifed Trade skill. You
reduce the required SL of any Extended Test using your Trade
Skill by the level of your Master Tradesman Talent.
Menacing
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Intimidate
You have an imposing presence. When using the Intimidate
Skill, gain a SL bonus equal to your levels of Menacing.
IV
140Mimic
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Acting) Tests where accents are important
You have a good ear for accents and dialects, and can reproduce
them accurately. You may replicate any accent you are exposed
to for at least a day with an Initiative Test; this Test may be
attempted once per day. Once passed, you may always mimic the
accent, and locals will believe you to be one of their own.
Night Vision
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Perception tests in low-light conditions
You can see very well in natural darkness. Assuming you have
at least a faint source of light (such as starlight, moonlight, or
bioluminescence) you can see clearly for 20 yards per level of
Night Vision. Further, you can extend the e?ective illumination
distance of any light sources by 20 yards per level of Night Vision.
Nimble Fingered
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Dexterity (this
does not count towards your Advances).
Noble Blood
Max: 1
Tests: Any Test in?uenced by your Status
You are either born into the nobility, or otherwise elevated to it
by in-game events. Assuming you are dressed appropriately, you
are always considered of higher Status than others unless they also
have the Noble Blood Talent, where Status is compared as normal.
Nose for Trouble
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Test to spot Troublemakers
You are used to getting into, and preferably out of, trouble. You
may attempt an Intuition Test to spot those seeking to cause
trouble or seeking to cause you harm, even if normally you would
not be allowed a Test (because of Talents or a Spell, for example).
Tis Test will likely be Opposed if others are hiding, and the GM
may prefer to take this Test on your behalf in secret so you do
not know the results should you fail. If any troublemakers you
spot start combat, you may ignore any Surprised Condition they
would normally in?ict.
Numismatics
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Evaluate to establish the worth of coins
You are well versed with the di?erent coinage of the Old World,
and are adept at determining their value. You can judge the true
value of a coin by experience alone, not even requiring a Test.
Further, you can identify forged coins with a Simple Evaluate
Test; it is never Opposed by the SL of the Forger.
Old Salt
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Sail (any Sea-worthy Vessels)
You are an experienced seaman, and are very used to sea life. You
can ignore all negative modifers to Tests at sea derived from poor
weather, rolling ships, and similar. Further, you count as two seamen
towards the minimum number of crew to pilot a sea-going vessel.
Orientation
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Navigation
You have an instinctual feel for direction. You automatically
know which direction is north with a glimpse at the stars, trees,
or whatever other signs you are familiar with.
Panhandle
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Charm (Begging)
You are a skilled beggar, able to get even the most jaded individual
to contribute to your cause. You can perform a Charm Test every
half hour when Begging, not every hour (see page 120).
sKIlls and talents IVWarhammer Fantasy roleplay
Perfect Pitch
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Sing), Language (Tonal Languages, such as
Elthárin, Cathayan, and Magick)
You have perfect pitch, able to replicate notes perfectly and
identify them without even making a Test. Further, add Entertain
(Sing) to any Career you enter; if it is already in your Career, you
may instead purchase the Skill for 5 XP fewer per Advance.
Petty Magic
Max: 1
You have the spark to cast magic within you and have mastered
techniques to control it at a basic level. When you take this
Talent, you manifest, and permanently memorise, a number of
spells equal to your Willpower Bonus. You can learn extra Petty
spells for the following cost in XP.
No. of Petty Spells Currently Known XP Cost for a new spell
Up to Willpower Bonus × 1 50 XP
Up to Willpower Bonus × 2 100 XP
Up to Willpower Bonus × 3 150 XP
Up to Willpower Bonus × 4 200 XP
...and so on.
So, if your Willpower Bonus is 3 and you had 3 Petty spells, it will
cost you 50XP for the frst learned spell, then 100 XP for the next
three, and so on. Full rules for learning new spells are provided in
Chapter 8: Magic.
Pharmacist
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Trade (Apothecary)
You are highly skilled at pharmacy, better able than most to
make pills, ointments, unguents, oils, creams, and more. You may
reverse any failed Trade (Apothecary) test if this allows the Test
to succeed.
Pilot
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Row or Sail Tests while navigating unsure waters
You are skilled at leading vessels through dangerous waters. If you
fail a Test to pass through dangerous waters, you may reverse the
result if it will score a success; however, if you do so, you may not
score more than +1 SL as you catch the incoming danger at the
last moment.
Public Speaker
Max: Fellowship Bonus
You are a skilled orator and know how to work large groups of
people. Refer to the following table to see how many people you
can now in?uence with your Charm Skill (see page 120) when
Public Speaking.
Talent Taken Number in?uenced
1 As normal × 5
2 As normal × 10
3 As normal × 20
4 As normal × 50
5 As normal × 100
6 As normal × 200
7 As normal × 500
8 As normal × 1000
9 All who can hear your golden voice
Pure Soul
Max: Willpower Bonus
Your soul is pure, quite resistant to the depredations of Chaos.
You may gain extra Corruption points equal to your level of Pure
Soul before having to Test to see if you become corrupt.
Rapid Reload
Max: Dexterity Bonus
You can reload ranged weapons with practiced ease. You add SL
equal to your level in Rapid Reload to any Test to reload a ranged
weapon.
Reaction Strike
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Initiative Tests concerning this Talent
Your fast reactions have allowed you to fell many opponents
before they have even swung their blades. When you are
Charged, you may attempt a Challenging (+0) Initiative Test
to gain an immediate Free Attack outside the normal turn
sequence. Tis attack is resolved with whatever weapon you are
carrying in your primary hand. You may make as many Reaction
Strikes in a Round as you have levels in this Talent, but can only
attack each individual charger once each.
Read/Write
Max: 1
You are one of the rare literate individuals in the Old World. You
are assumed to be able to read and write (if appropriate) all of the
Languages you can speak.
Relentless
Max: Agility Bonus
When you have your mind set on a target, there is nothing anyone
can do to stop you reaching them. If you use Advantage when
Disengaging, you may keep a number of Advantage equal to your
level of Relentless. Further, you may use Advantage to Disengage
even if you have lower Advantage than your opponents.
IV
142Resistance (Treat)
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: All those to resist the associated Treat
Your strong constitution allows you to more readily survive a
specifc threat. You may automatically pass the frst Test to resist
the specifed threat, such as Magic, Poison, Disease, Mutation,
every session. If SL is important, use your Toughness Bonus as SL
for the Test.
Resolute
Max: Strength Bonus
You launch into attacks with grim determination. Add your level
of Resolute to your Strength Bonus when you Charge.
Reversal
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus
Tests: Melee when defending
You are used to desperate combats, able to turn even the direst
circumstances to your Advantage. If you win an Opposed Melee
Test, instead of gaining +1 Advantage, you may take all your
opponent’s Current Advantage. If you do this, you do not cause
any Damage, even if it is your Turn in the Round.
Riposte
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Melee when defending
Conforming to ‘the best defence is o?ence’, you respond to an
incoming attack with a lightning-fast counterstrike of your own.
If your weapon has the Fast quality, you may cause Damage when
you are attacked, just as if it was your Action. You can Riposte a
number of attacks per round equal to your Riposte level.
River Guide
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Lore Test concerning river matters
You know all the tricks for navigating dangerous rivers. You don’t
need to Test for passing through dangerous stretches of water until
the Difculty for doing so is –10 or lower — you automatically
pass all Tests easier than this. Further, if you have the appropriate
Lore (Local) Skill, you need never Test for navigating dangerous
waters — you are assumed to know the route through.
Robust
Max: Toughness Bonus
You are as tough as old boots and just soak up damage. You reduce
all incoming Damage by an extra +1 per time you have taken the
Robust Talent, even if the Damage cannot normally be reduced,
but still su?er a minimum of 1 Wound from any Damage source.
Roughrider
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Ride (Horse) when in combat
You are at home in the saddle in even the most difcult of
circumstances, and know how to get the best out of your mount
during con?ict. Assuming you have the Ride skill, you can direct
your mount to take an Action, not just a Move, without a Ride test.
Rover
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Stealth Tests in a Rural environment
You are at home roaming the wild places. When using Stealth
in a rural environment, bystanders do not get passive Perception
Tests to detect you; they can only spot you if they are specifcally
on look-out, or watching for hidden spies.
Savant (Lore)
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Lore (chosen Lore)
You are exceptionally learned, and have a signifcant degree of
specialised knowledge in a single feld of study. You automatically
know a number of pieces of correct information equal to you
Savant (Lore) level about a relevant issue without having to
test your Lore Skill. Testing, as always, will provide yet more
information as normal as determined by the GM.
sKIlls and talents IVWarhammer Fantasy roleplay
Savvy
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Intelligence
Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).
Scale Sheer Surface
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Climb
You are an exceptional climber. You can attempt to climb even
seemingly impossible surfaces such as sheer fortifcations, ice
shelves, plastered walls, and similar, and you ignore any penalties
to Climb Tests derived from the difculty of the surface climbed.
Schemer
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Intelligence Tests concerning this Talent
You are a master of politics and see conspiracy around every corner.
Once per session, you may ask the GM one question regarding
a political situation or entangled web of social connections; the
GM will perform a secret Intelligence Test and provide you some
observations regarding the situation based upon your SL.
Sea Legs
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: All those taken to resist Sea Sickness
You are used to the rolling motion of the oceans, and are very
unlikely to get sea sick, even in the worst storms. Under normal
conditions at sea, you need never Test to see if you become Sea
Sick. At other times (such as a storm, or a magically induced bout
of Sea Sickness), you can ignore any penalties to Tests to avoid
Sea Sickness.
Seasoned Traveller
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Any Lore Test concerning local detail
You are an inquisitive soul who has travelled far and wide, learning
all manner of local information. Add Lore (Local) to any Career
you enter; if it is already in Career, you may purchase the Skill,
both times — a di?erent Speciality each time, such as Altdorf,
Vorbergland, or Ubersreik — for 5 XP fewer per Advance.
Second Sight
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Any Test to detect the Winds of Magic
You can perceive the shifting Winds of Magic that course from
the Chaos Gates at the poles of the world. You now have the
Sight (see page 233).
Secret Identity
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Entertain (Acting) Tests to support your secret identities
You maintain a secret identity that allows you to appear richer,
or perhaps poorer, than you actually are. With GM permission,
choose any one Career. As long as you are dressed appropriately,
you may use the Social Status of the chosen Career you
masquerade as rather than your own for modifying Fellowship
Tests, and can even ignore the Criminal Talent. However,
maintaining this identity will require Entertain (Acting) rolls
when you encounter those who may recognise your falsehood.
You may create a new Secret Identity for each level you have in
this Talent.
Shadow
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Any Test involving Shadowing
You are skilled at following people without being spotted. You
may use the Shadowing rules on page 130 without doing a
Combined Test. Instead you test against just your Perception or
your Stealth Skill, whichever is higher.
Sharp
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Initiative
Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).
IVSharpshooter
Max: 1
You can make aimed shots of exceptional accuracy. You ignore
any negative Difculty modifers to Ranged Tests due to the size
of your target.
Shieldsman
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Any Test to defend with a shield
You are skilled at using your shield to manoeuvre others in
combat so you can take advantage of a desperate situation.
When using a Shield to defend, you gain Advantage equal to
the number of levels you have in Shieldsman if you lose the
Opposed Test.
Sixth Sense
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Intuition Tests involving your Sixth Sense
You get a strange feeling when you are threatened, and can react
accordingly. Te GM may warn you if you are walking into
danger; this will normally come after a secret Intuition Test
on your behalf. Further, you may ignore Surprise if you pass an
Intuition Test.
Slayer
Max: 1
When determining Damage use your opponent’s Toughness
Bonus as your Strength Bonus if it is higher; always determine
this before any other rules modify your Strength or Strength
Bonus. Further, if your target is larger than you, and your score a
Critical (see page 159), multiply all melee Damage you cause by
the number of steps larger your target is (so, 2 steps = ×2, 3 steps =
×3, and so on); this multiplication is calculated after all modifers
are applied. See page 341 for more about Size.
Small
Max: 1
You are much shorter than most folk in the Old World. Te full
rules for di?erent Sizes are found in Chapter 12: Bestiary on
page 341.
Sniper
Max: 4
Tests: Ranged (Long–Extreme Range)
Distance is of no import to your shooting skills, and you are just
as adept at picking o? far away targets as those nearby. You su?er
no penalties for shooting at Long range, and half the penalties
for Extreme range.
Speedreader
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Research and Language Tests where speed of reading is
important
You read books at a voracious pace. You may reverse a failed
Research Test if this will grant success. If the speed at which you
read is important during combat, a successful Language Test lets
you read and fully comprehend a number of pages per Round
equal to your SL plus Speedreader level (minimum of 1, even if
you fail the Test).
Sprinter
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Athletics Tests concerning Running
You are a swift runner. Your Movement Attribute counts as 1
higher when Running.
Step Aside
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Dodge Tests to activate this Talent
You are skilled at being where enemy weapons are not. If you
use Dodge to defend against an incoming attack and win the
Opposed Test, you may move up to 2 yards as you dive away, and
no longer count as Engaged. None of your opponents will gain a
Free Attack when you do this.
Stone Soup
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: Endurance Tests to resist hunger
You are used to getting by with less, and know how to survive
lean times. You can subsist on half the amount of food required
without any negative penalties (bar feeling really hungry), and
need only test for Starvation every 3 days, not 2 (see page 181).
Stout-hearted
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Cool Tests to remove Broken Conditions
No matter how bad things get, you always seem to come back
for more. You may attempt a Cool Test to remove a Broken
Condition at the end of each of your Turns as well as at the end
of the Round (see page 168 for more on this).
Strider (Terrain)
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Athletics Tests to traverse the Terrain
You are experienced in traversing difcult ground. You ignore all
movement penalties when crossing over or through a specifed
terrain. Typical specialities include: Coastal, Deserts, Marshes,
Rocky, Tundra, Woodlands.
Strike Mighty Blow
Max: Strength Bonus
You know how to hit hard! You deal your level of Strike Mighty
Blow in extra Damage with melee weapons.
sKIlls and talents IV
145Warhammer Fantasy roleplay
Strike to Injure
Max: Initiative Bonus
You are an expert at striking your enemies most vulnerable areas.
You in?ict your level of Strike to Injure in additional Wounds
when you cause a Critical Wound.
Strike to Stun
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus
Tests: Melee Tests when Striking to Stun
You know where to hit an opponent to bring him down fast. You
ignore the ‘Called Shot’ penalty to strike the Head Hit Location
when using a melee weapon with the Pummel Quality (see page
298). Further, you count all improvised weapons as having the
Pummel Quality.
Strong Back
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Row and Swim
You have a strong back that is used to hard work. You may add
your levels in Strong Back to your SL in any Opposed Strength
Tests, and can carry additional Encumbrance points of trappings
(see page 293) equal to your level of Strong Back.
Strong Legs
Max: Strength Bonus
You have strong legs able to carry you great distances when you
jump. Add your Strong Legs level to your SL in any Athletics
Tests involving Leaping (see page 166).
Strong-minded
Max: Willpower Bonus
You are the epitome of determination and resolve. Add your level
in Strong Minded to your maximum Resolve pool.
Strong Swimmer
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Swim
You are an especially strong swimmer and used to holding your
breath for a long time underwater. Gain a bonus of your level in
Strong Swimmer to your Toughness Bonus for the purposes of
holding your breath.
Sturdy
Max: Strength Bonus
Tests: Strength Tests when lifting
You have a brawny physique, or are very used to carrying things.
Increase the number of Encumbrance Points you can carry by
your Sturdy level x 2.
Suave
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Fellowship
Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).
Super Numerate
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Evaluate, Gamble
You have a gift for calculation and can work out the solution to most
mathematical problems with ease. You may use a simple calculator
to represent what your PC is capable of mentally computing.
Supportive
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Tests: Social Tests to in?uence a superior
You know what to say and when to make the most impact
upon your superiors. When you successfully use a social Skill to
in?uence those with a higher Status tier, you can choose to either
use your rolled SL, or the number rolled on your units die. So, a
successful roll of 46 could be used for +6 SL.
Sure Shot
Max: Initiative Bonus
You know how to fnd the weak spots in a target’s armour. When
you hit a target with a Ranged weapon, you may ignore Armour
Points equal to your Sure Shot level.
Surgery
Max: Intelligence Bonus
Tests: Heal Tests outside combat rounds; i.e. when you have
time to do it ‘properly’
You are a surgeon, able to open and close the ?esh in order to
heal others. You can treat any Critical Wound marked as needing
Surgery. You can also perform surgery to resolve internal issues
with an Extended Challenging (+0) Heal Test with a target
SL determined by the GM (usually 5–10) depending upon the
difculty of the procedure at hand. Tis will cause 1d10 Wounds
and 1 Bleeding Condition per Test, meaning surgery has a high
chance of killing a patient if the surgeon is not careful. After
surgery, the patient must pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test
or gain a Minor Infection (see page 187).
Tenacious
Max: Toughness Bonus
Tests: Endurance Tests for enduring hardships
You never give up, no matter how impossible your travails appear.
You can double the length of time successful Endurance Tests
allow you to endure a hardship. Tis includes enduring prolonged
riding, exposure, rituals, and similar adversities.
Tinker
Max: Dexterity Bonus
Tests: Trade Tests to repair broken items
You are somewhat of a Johann-of-all-trades, able to repair almost
anything. You count all non-magical Trade Skills as Basic when
repairing broken items.
Tower of Memories
Max: Intelligence Bonus
A recollection technique frst instigated by the Cult of Verena,
reputedly from Elven practices taught by the Loremasters
of Hoeth, Tower of Memories allows you to perfectly recall a
IV
146sequence of facts by storing them in an imaginary spire. You can
recall a sequence as long as your Intelligence without having to
make a Test. For every 10 more items you attempt to memorise,
you must make an increasingly difcult Intelligence Test to
recall the list correctly, starting at Very Easy (+60) for +10, Easy
(+40) for +20, Average (+20) for +30, and so on. Beyond it’s
obvious utility for Gamble Tests, where having this Talent adds
a bonus of +20 to +60 depending upon how useful recalling
sequences is to the game at hand, the GM can apply bonuses
to other Tests as appropriate. Each time you take this Talent
you may recall an extra sequence without having to forget a
previously stored one.
Trapper
Max: Initiative Bonus
Tests: Perception Tests to spot traps, Set Trap
You are skilled at spotting and using traps. You may take a
Perception Test to spot traps automatically without having to tell
the GM of your intention; the GM may prefer to make some of
these Tests on your behalf in private.
Trick Riding
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Dodge Tests on Horseback, Ride (Horse)
You are capable of amazing feats of agility on horseback. You
can use any of your Performer Skills and unmodifed Dodge skill
when on horseback. Further, when mounted, you can make your
Move at the start of the Round instead of on your Turn.
Tunnel Rat
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Stealth Tests when underground
You are at home in tunnels, sewers, and other underground
environments. When using Stealth in an underground environment,
bystanders do not get passive Perception Tests to detect you; they
can only spot you if they are specifcally on look-out, or watching
for hidden others.
Unshakable
Max: Willpower Bonus
Tests: Cool Tests to resist Blackpowder panic
You are a jaded veteran who has survived more than one hail
of shots from Blackpowder weapons. You need only take a Cool
Test to resist a Broken Condition if you are successfully wounded
by a Blackpowder weapon, not just if you are shot at.
Very Resilient
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Toughness
Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).
Very Strong
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Strength
Characteristic (this does not count towards your Advances).
War Leader
Max: Fellowship Bonus
Skills: Leadership Tests during War
Your stern gaze and inspiring words motivate your soldiers to
fght on to the end. All subordinates able to see you may add
your level in War Leader to their SL in one Willpower Test per
Round. Tis bonus does not stack.
War Wizard
Max: 1
You are trained to cast magic while in the thick of combat. On
your Turn, you may cast one Spell with a Casting Number of 5 or
less for free without using your Action. However, if you do this,
you may not cast another spell this Turn.
Warrior Born
Max: 1
You gain a permanent +5 bonus to your starting Weapon Skill
Characteristic (doesn’t count as Advances).
Waterman
Max: Agility Bonus
Tests: Sail Tests for river-going vessels
You are an experienced freshwater sailor and are well-versed with
river vessels. You can ignore all negatives to your Tests when
onboard a barge derived from rolling waters, swaying vessels,
unsure footing, and similar. Further, you count as two boatmen
towards the minimum number of crew to pilot a river vessel.
Wealthy
Max: None
You are fabulously wealthy, and are rarely ever short of coin.
When Earning (including Income Endeavours) you secure +1
GC per time you have this Talent.
Well-prepared
Max: Initiative Bonus
You are used to anticipating the needs of others, and yourself. A
number of times per session equal to your level of Well-Prepared,
you may pull the trapping required for the current situation from
your backpack (or similar) as long as it is Encumbrance 0, could
feasibly been bought recently, and doesn’t stretch credibility too far.
Tis could be anything from a ?ask of spirits to fortify a wounded
comrade to a pfennig-whistle needed by a passing entertainer.
Whenever you do this, you must deduct the cost for the prepared
item from your purse, representing the coin you spent earlier.
Witch!
Max: Willpower Bonus
You have learned magic through trial and error. Add Language
(Magick) to any Career you enter; if it is already in your Career, you
may purchase the Skill for 5 XP fewer per Advance. Further, you
may spend 1 Resilience point to immediately cast any spell as if it
were one of your Arcane Lore spells; you also instantly memorise
that spell as one of your Arcane Lore spells for 0 XP. You can do
this a number of times equal to your level in this Talent.